nginx-extras/src/modules/http-fancyindex/README.rst, before:

========================
Nginx Fancy Index module
========================

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/aperezdc/ngx-fancyindex.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/aperezdc/ngx-fancyindex
   :alt: Build Status

.. contents::

The Fancy Index module makes possible the generation of file listings, like
the built-in `autoindex <http://wiki.nginx.org/NginxHttpAutoindexModule>`__
module does, but adding a touch of style. This is possible because the module
module allows a certain degree of customization of the generated content:

* Custom headers. Either local or stored remotely.
* Custom footers. Either local or stored remotely.
* Add you own CSS style rules.
* Allow choosing to sort elements by name (default), modification time, or
  size; both ascending (default), or descending.

This module is designed to work with Nginx_, a high performance open source web
server written by `Igor Sysoev <http://sysoev.ru>`__.


Requirements
============

You will need the sources for Nginx_. Any version starting from the 0.7
series onwards will work.  Note that the modules *might* compile with
versions in the 0.6 series by applying ``nginx-0.6-support.patch``, but this
is unsupported (YMMV).

In order to use the fancyindex_header_ and fancyindex_footer_ directives
you will also need the `ngx_http_addition_module <http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_addition_module.html>`_
built into Nginx.


Building
========

1. Unpack the Nginx_ sources::

    $ gunzip -c nginx-?.?.?.tar.gz | tar -xvf -

2. Unpack the sources for the fancy indexing module::

    $ gunzip -c nginx-fancyindex-?.?.?.tar.gz | tar -xvf -

3. Change to the directory which contains the Nginx_ sources, run the
   configuration script with the desired options and be sure to put an
   ``--add-module`` flag pointing to the directory which contains the source
   of the fancy indexing module::

    $ cd nginx-?.?.?
    $ ./configure --add-module=../nginx-fancyindex-?.?.? \
       [--with-http_addition_module] [extra desired options]

   Since version 0.4.0, the module can also be built as a
   `dynamic module <https://www.nginx.com/resources/wiki/extending/converting/>`_,
   using ``--add-dynamic-module=…`` instead.

4. Build and install the software::

    $ make

   And then, as ``root``::

    # make install

5. Configure Nginx_ by using the modules' configuration directives_.


Example
=======

You can test the default built-in style by adding the following lines into
a ``server`` section in your Nginx_ configuration file::

  location / {
    fancyindex on;              # Enable fancy indexes.
    fancyindex_exact_size off;  # Output human-readable file sizes.
  }


Themes
~~~~~~

The following themes demonstrate the level of customization which can be
achieved using the module:

* `Theme <https://github.com/TheInsomniac/Nginx-Fancyindex-Theme>`__ by
  `@TheInsomniac <https://github.com/TheInsomniac>`__. Uses custom header and
  footer.
* `Theme <https://github.com/nwrd/Nginx-Fancyindex-Theme>`__ by
  nwrd <https://github.com/nwrd>`__. Uses custom header and footer, the
  header includes search field to filter by filename using JavaScript
  (`demo <http://nwrd.sly.io/>`__).


Directives
==========

fancyindex
~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex* [*on* | *off*]
:Default: fancyindex off
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  Enables or disables fancy directory indexes.

fancyindex_default_sort
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_default_sort* [*name* | *size* | *date* | *name_desc* | *size_desc* | *date_desc*]
:Default: fancyindex_default_sort name
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  Defines sorting criterion by default.

fancyindex_directories_first
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_directories_first* [*on* | *off*]
:Default: fancyindex_directories_first on
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  If enabled (default setting), groups directories together and sorts them
  before all regular files. If disabled, directories are sorted together with files.

fancyindex_css_href
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_css_href uri*
:Default: fancyindex_css_href ""
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  Allows inserting a link to a CSS style sheet in generated listings. The
  provided *uri* parameter will be inserted as-is in a ``<link>`` HTML tag.
  The link is inserted after the built-in CSS rules, so you can override the
  default styles.

fancyindex_exact_size
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_exact_size* [*on* | *off*]
:Default: fancyindex_exact_size on
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  Defines how to represent file sizes in the directory listing; either
  accurately, or rounding off to the kilobyte, the megabyte and the
  gigabyte.

fancyindex_name_length
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_name_length length*
:Default: fancyindex_name_length 50
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  Defines the maximum file name length limit in bytes.

fancyindex_footer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_footer path*
:Default: fancyindex_footer ""
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  Specifies which file should be inserted at the foot of directory listings.
  If set to an empty string, the default footer supplied by the module will
  be sent.

.. note:: Using this directive needs the ngx_http_addition_module_ built
   into Nginx.

.. warning:: When inserting custom header/footer a subrequest will be
   issued so potentially any URL can be used as source for them. Although it
   will work with external URLs, only using internal ones is supported.
   External URLs are totally untested and using them will make Nginx_ block
   while waiting for the subrequest to complete. If you feel like external
   header/footer is a must-have for you, please
   `let me know <mailto:aperez@igalia.com>`__.

fancyindex_header
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_header path*
:Default: fancyindex_header ""
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  Specifies which file should be inserted at the head of directory listings.
  If set to an empty string, the default header supplied by the module will
  be sent.

.. note:: Using this directive needs the ngx_http_addition_module_ built
   into Nginx.

fancyindex_show_path
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_show_path* [*on* | *off*]
:Default: fancyindex_show_path on
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  Whether to output or not the path and the closing </h1> tag after the header.
  This is useful when you want to handle the path displaying with a PHP script
  for example.

.. warning:: This directive can be turned off only if a custom header is provided
   using fancyindex_header.

fancyindex_ignore
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_ignore string1 [string2 [... stringN]]*
:Default: No default.
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  Specifies a list of file names which will be not be shown in generated
  listings. If Nginx was built with PCRE support strings are interpreted as
  regular expressions.

fancyindex_hide_symlinks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_hide_symlinks* [*on* | *off*]
:Default: fancyindex_hide_symlinks off
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  When enabled, generated listings will not contain symbolic links.

fancyindex_localtime
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_localtime* [*on* | *off*]
:Default: fancyindex_localtime off
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  Enables showing file times as local time. Default is “off” (GMT time).

fancyindex_time_format
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_time_format* string
:Default: fancyindex_time_format "%Y-%b-%d %H:%M"
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  Format string used for timestamps. The format specifiers are a subset of
  those supported by the `strftime <http://linux.die.net/man/3/strftime>`_
  function, and the behavior is locale-independent (for example, day and month
  names are always in English). The supported formats are:

  * ``%a``: Abbreviated name of the day of the week.
  * ``%A``: Full name of the day of the week.
  * ``%b``: Abbreviated month name.
  * ``%B``: Full month name.
  * ``%d``: Day of the month as a decimal number (range 01 to 31).
  * ``%e``: Like ``%d``, the day of the month as a decimal number, but a
    leading zero is replaced by a space.
  * ``%F``: Equivalent to ``%Y-%m-%d`` (the ISO 8601 date format).
  * ``%H``: Hour as a decimal number using a 24-hour clock (range 00
    to 23).
  * ``%I``: Hour as a decimal number using a 12-hour clock (range 01 to 12).
  * ``%k``: Hour (24-hour clock) as a decimal number (range 0 to 23);
    single digits are preceded by a blank.
  * ``%l``: Hour (12-hour clock) as a decimal number (range 1 to 12); single
    digits are preceded by a blank.
  * ``%m``: Month as a decimal number (range 01 to 12).
  * ``%M``: Minute as a decimal number (range 00 to 59).
  * ``%p``: Either "AM" or "PM" according to the given time value.
  * ``%P``: Like ``%p`` but in lowercase: "am" or "pm".
  * ``%r``: Time in a.m. or p.m. notation. Equivalent to ``%I:%M:%S %p``.
  * ``%R``: Time in 24-hour notation (``%H:%M``).
  * ``%S``: Second as a decimal number (range 00 to 60).
  * ``%T``: Time in 24-hour notation (``%H:%M:%S``).
  * ``%u``: Day of the week as a decimal, range 1 to 7, Monday being 1.
  * ``%w``: Day of the week as a decimal, range 0 to 6, Monday being 0.
  * ``%y``: Year as a decimal number without a century (range 00 to 99).
  * ``%Y``: Year as a decimal number including the century.


.. _nginx: http://nginx.net

.. vim:ft=rst:spell:spelllang=en:

Commit message:

nginx-extras: bump to 1.14.0, modules 1.13.12-1

nginx-extras/src/modules/http-fancyindex/README.rst, after:

========================
Nginx Fancy Index module
========================

.. image:: https://travis-ci.org/aperezdc/ngx-fancyindex.svg?branch=master
   :target: https://travis-ci.org/aperezdc/ngx-fancyindex
   :alt: Build Status

.. contents::

The Fancy Index module makes possible the generation of file listings, like
the built-in `autoindex <http://wiki.nginx.org/NginxHttpAutoindexModule>`__
module does, but adding a touch of style. This is possible because the module
module allows a certain degree of customization of the generated content:

* Custom headers. Either local or stored remotely.
* Custom footers. Either local or stored remotely.
* Add you own CSS style rules.
* Allow choosing to sort elements by name (default), modification time, or
  size; both ascending (default), or descending.

This module is designed to work with Nginx_, a high performance open source web
server written by `Igor Sysoev <http://sysoev.ru>`__.


Requirements
============

CentOS 7
~~~~~~~~

For users of the  `official stable <https://www.nginx.com/resources/wiki/start/topics/tutorials/install/>`__  Nginx repository, `extra packages repository with dynamic modules <https://www.getpagespeed.com/redhat>`__ is available and fancyindex is included.

Install directly:: 

    yum install https://extras.getpagespeed.com/redhat/7/x86_64/RPMS/nginx-module-fancyindex-1.12.0.0.4.1-1.el7.gps.x86_64.rpm

Alternatively, add extras repository first (for future updates) and install the module::

    yum install nginx-module-fancyindex
    
Then load the module in `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf` using

   load_module "modules/ngx_http_fancyindex_module.so";

Other platforms
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In most other cases you will need the sources for Nginx_. Any version starting from the 0.7
series onwards will work.  Note that the modules *might* compile with
versions in the 0.6 series by applying ``nginx-0.6-support.patch``, but this
is unsupported (YMMV).

In order to use the fancyindex_header_ and fancyindex_footer_ directives
you will also need the `ngx_http_addition_module <http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/ngx_http_addition_module.html>`_
built into Nginx.


Building
========

1. Unpack the Nginx_ sources::

    $ gunzip -c nginx-?.?.?.tar.gz | tar -xvf -

2. Unpack the sources for the fancy indexing module::

    $ gunzip -c nginx-fancyindex-?.?.?.tar.gz | tar -xvf -

3. Change to the directory which contains the Nginx_ sources, run the
   configuration script with the desired options and be sure to put an
   ``--add-module`` flag pointing to the directory which contains the source
   of the fancy indexing module::

    $ cd nginx-?.?.?
    $ ./configure --add-module=../nginx-fancyindex-?.?.? \
       [--with-http_addition_module] [extra desired options]

   Since version 0.4.0, the module can also be built as a
   `dynamic module <https://www.nginx.com/resources/wiki/extending/converting/>`_,
   using ``--add-dynamic-module=…`` instead and ``load_module "modules/ngx_http_fancyindex_module.so";`
   in the configuration file

4. Build and install the software::

    $ make

   And then, as ``root``::

    # make install

5. Configure Nginx_ by using the modules' configuration directives_.


Example
=======

You can test the default built-in style by adding the following lines into
a ``server`` section in your Nginx_ configuration file::

  location / {
    fancyindex on;              # Enable fancy indexes.
    fancyindex_exact_size off;  # Output human-readable file sizes.
  }


Themes
~~~~~~

The following themes demonstrate the level of customization which can be
achieved using the module:

* `Theme <https://github.com/TheInsomniac/Nginx-Fancyindex-Theme>`__ by
  `@TheInsomniac <https://github.com/TheInsomniac>`__. Uses custom header and
  footer.
* `Theme <https://github.com/Naereen/Nginx-Fancyindex-Theme>`__ by
  `Naereen <https://github.com/Naereen/>`__. Uses custom header and footer, the
  header includes search field to filter by filename using JavaScript.


Directives
==========

fancyindex
~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex* [*on* | *off*]
:Default: fancyindex off
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  Enables or disables fancy directory indexes.

fancyindex_default_sort
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_default_sort* [*name* | *size* | *date* | *name_desc* | *size_desc* | *date_desc*]
:Default: fancyindex_default_sort name
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  Defines sorting criterion by default.

fancyindex_directories_first
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_directories_first* [*on* | *off*]
:Default: fancyindex_directories_first on
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  If enabled (default setting), groups directories together and sorts them
  before all regular files. If disabled, directories are sorted together with files.

fancyindex_css_href
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_css_href uri*
:Default: fancyindex_css_href ""
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  Allows inserting a link to a CSS style sheet in generated listings. The
  provided *uri* parameter will be inserted as-is in a ``<link>`` HTML tag.
  The link is inserted after the built-in CSS rules, so you can override the
  default styles.

fancyindex_exact_size
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_exact_size* [*on* | *off*]
:Default: fancyindex_exact_size on
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  Defines how to represent file sizes in the directory listing; either
  accurately, or rounding off to the kilobyte, the megabyte and the
  gigabyte.

fancyindex_name_length
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_name_length length*
:Default: fancyindex_name_length 50
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  Defines the maximum file name length limit in bytes.

fancyindex_footer
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_footer path*
:Default: fancyindex_footer ""
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  Specifies which file should be inserted at the foot of directory listings.
  If set to an empty string, the default footer supplied by the module will
  be sent.

.. note:: Using this directive needs the ngx_http_addition_module_ built
   into Nginx.

.. warning:: When inserting custom header/footer a subrequest will be
   issued so potentially any URL can be used as source for them. Although it
   will work with external URLs, only using internal ones is supported.
   External URLs are totally untested and using them will make Nginx_ block
   while waiting for the subrequest to complete. If you feel like external
   header/footer is a must-have for you, please
   `let me know <mailto:aperez@igalia.com>`__.

fancyindex_header
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_header path*
:Default: fancyindex_header ""
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  Specifies which file should be inserted at the head of directory listings.
  If set to an empty string, the default header supplied by the module will
  be sent.

.. note:: Using this directive needs the ngx_http_addition_module_ built
   into Nginx.

fancyindex_show_path
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_show_path* [*on* | *off*]
:Default: fancyindex_show_path on
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  Whether to output or not the path and the closing </h1> tag after the header.
  This is useful when you want to handle the path displaying with a PHP script
  for example.

.. warning:: This directive can be turned off only if a custom header is provided
   using fancyindex_header.

fancyindex_ignore
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_ignore string1 [string2 [... stringN]]*
:Default: No default.
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  Specifies a list of file names which will be not be shown in generated
  listings. If Nginx was built with PCRE support strings are interpreted as
  regular expressions.

fancyindex_hide_symlinks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_hide_symlinks* [*on* | *off*]
:Default: fancyindex_hide_symlinks off
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  When enabled, generated listings will not contain symbolic links.

fancyindex_localtime
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_localtime* [*on* | *off*]
:Default: fancyindex_localtime off
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  Enables showing file times as local time. Default is “off” (GMT time).

fancyindex_time_format
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
:Syntax: *fancyindex_time_format* string
:Default: fancyindex_time_format "%Y-%b-%d %H:%M"
:Context: http, server, location
:Description:
  Format string used for timestamps. The format specifiers are a subset of
  those supported by the `strftime <http://linux.die.net/man/3/strftime>`_
  function, and the behavior is locale-independent (for example, day and month
  names are always in English). The supported formats are:

  * ``%a``: Abbreviated name of the day of the week.
  * ``%A``: Full name of the day of the week.
  * ``%b``: Abbreviated month name.
  * ``%B``: Full month name.
  * ``%d``: Day of the month as a decimal number (range 01 to 31).
  * ``%e``: Like ``%d``, the day of the month as a decimal number, but a
    leading zero is replaced by a space.
  * ``%F``: Equivalent to ``%Y-%m-%d`` (the ISO 8601 date format).
  * ``%H``: Hour as a decimal number using a 24-hour clock (range 00
    to 23).
  * ``%I``: Hour as a decimal number using a 12-hour clock (range 01 to 12).
  * ``%k``: Hour (24-hour clock) as a decimal number (range 0 to 23);
    single digits are preceded by a blank.
  * ``%l``: Hour (12-hour clock) as a decimal number (range 1 to 12); single
    digits are preceded by a blank.
  * ``%m``: Month as a decimal number (range 01 to 12).
  * ``%M``: Minute as a decimal number (range 00 to 59).
  * ``%p``: Either "AM" or "PM" according to the given time value.
  * ``%P``: Like ``%p`` but in lowercase: "am" or "pm".
  * ``%r``: Time in a.m. or p.m. notation. Equivalent to ``%I:%M:%S %p``.
  * ``%R``: Time in 24-hour notation (``%H:%M``).
  * ``%S``: Second as a decimal number (range 00 to 60).
  * ``%T``: Time in 24-hour notation (``%H:%M:%S``).
  * ``%u``: Day of the week as a decimal, range 1 to 7, Monday being 1.
  * ``%w``: Day of the week as a decimal, range 0 to 6, Monday being 0.
  * ``%y``: Year as a decimal number without a century (range 00 to 99).
  * ``%Y``: Year as a decimal number including the century.


.. _nginx: http://nginx.net

.. vim:ft=rst:spell:spelllang=en:
